by late summer the corral tanks
contained the only standing water the
kilometers around
[Music]
the canyons more mobile insects are
drawn to this one last oasis for those
able to travel this water is a lifesaver
[Music]
bees and wasps can carry the water back
to their distant nests but this tiny
pool of water lives just beyond the
boundary of the corral colonies
territory
but no end in sight such desperate times
call for desperate measures
as the search widens a small group of
Corral workers head towards the trough
this is unfamiliar ground for them they
are heading toward disaster
near the trough they stumble across
other honey ants and then a nest
entrance
it's only 40 meters from the corral
colony that that's been enough to keep
these two nests in mutual ignorance for
all these years
these new honey ants are unlike any the
Corral workers have encountered before
they are big and aggressive instead of
backing down they meet the challenge
head-on and the encounter begins to
escalate for the first time in its
history
the Corral colony may have met its match
sensing the worst the Corral workers
begin to fall back towards their own
nest the trough workers go on the
offensive
the retreat quickly turns into a rout
stragglers picked off
the fight is carried right to the
entrance of the corral colony
even here on their own doorstep they
can't hold their ground
the attacking trough workers drive on
into the nest
as news of the attack reaches the corral
Queen she withdraws to the deepest
chambers her entourage of nurses in tow
carrying the valuable brood
the battle spreads down into the tunnels
slowly inexorably it spreads down
through the shafts towards the deeper
part of the nest
[Music]
the repeats are slaughtered
or dragged away to be eaten later
some dead workers are carried off for
processing
the invaders take everything from eggs
to newborns
[Music]
many are eaten where they fall
they empty chamber after chamber
[Music]
finally the invaders overcome the last
resistance and break through into the
Royal bunker
the Corral Queen and her broods are
trapped and completely helpless
held by each leg the queen is on the
rack first stretched then dismembered
it is a gruesome and ignominious end for
this once great ruler
[Music]
in just a few hours that chorale colony
has been annihilated
the nest emptied
too late for the corral colony the
drought finally breaks
a great storm heralded the start of the
corral Queens story and now eight years
later another marks its brutal end but
somewhere out in the desert
the Queen's royal daughters are fighting
their own battles
continuing her dynasty the Queen may be
dead but her empire lives on
[Music]